IOTA v1.3.010 - UI bugfixes and updates

IOTA and PRIME UI

    0. Created a 'gui' subfolder in 'components' and moved base, dialogs,
       controls, and plotter modules there, renaming them into base.py,
       dialogs.py, controls.py, and plotter.py
    1. PRIME button in Summary Tab now launches PRIME successfully
    2. PRIME can be launched successfully on MacOS, in both wxPython3 and 4, and
       quitting does not leave Python running as before (turns out PyPlot is bad
       for wxPython, never use PyPlot with wxPython!)
    3. Graceful window closure via a wx.EVT_CLOSE event handler in IOTABaseFrame
       base class, which
            a. catches a "window close" event either via the Quit button, or
               the X button on window border
            b. calls a clean-up function that can be overridden in subclass and
               contains window-specific clean-up code
            c. checks for child windows and calls the window close event handler
               for each one (with their attendant clean-up code)
            d. finds and stops any and all running threads (this step is
               performed from children all the way up to parents, so any errant
               threads, or threads that somehow start after the child window is
               closed, are still found and stopped)
    4. Put a try block in iota.run to catch a situation where IOTA UI is closed
       just as the thread is about to be launched, which throws an IOError
    5. IOTABaseFrame now has a "kill_threads" kwarg, which determines whether
       the frame will attempt to kill active threads on exit; it's not always
       desirable for frames to do that
    6. Changed to a custom easy_run subclass for PRIME, so that regular PRIME
       threads can be aborted cleanly

PRIME Plotter

    1. Now importing the PlotWindow class from IOTA Plotter (they're the same)
    2. Fixed chart formatting problem

KNOWN ISSUES:

    1. Need a clean abort procedure for queueing.

___________
06.20.2019
